Task 08 — pretend you have a company repo and a fork

Without GitHub I faked two remotes locally: upstream = "company", origin = "my fork".
They must be different paths or URLs — two names pointing at the same repo misses
the point of the exercise.

Wire them up (example):

  git remote add upstream ../remotes/upstream.git
  git remote add origin ../remotes/origin.git

Sanity check:

  git remote -v

You want two different lines — not the same URL twice.

Workflow I followed

Start from main, branch for work:

  git checkout main
  git checkout -b feature/task-08

Several small commits with real messages (not "wip" spam).

Push the feature to the fork remote:

  git push -u origin feature/task-08

No PR website — simulate merge locally:

  git checkout main
  git merge --no-ff feature/task-08 -m "merge: simulate landing the PR"

Push main where the assignment asks (both remotes if that is the story):

  git push upstream main
  git push origin main

"Review comments" are just more commits on the same feature branch:

  git checkout feature/task-08
  # edits
  git add .
  git commit -m "fix: address review feedback"

If I rewrote history (rebase / squash) and need to update the remote branch:

  git push --force-with-lease origin feature/task-08

Why --force-with-lease beats bare --force: Git refuses to clobber the remote if
new commits appeared that you have not seen — fewer nasty surprises.

Keeping the fork in sync with upstream

  git checkout main
  git fetch upstream
  git merge upstream/main
  git push origin main

If the feature branch is still open, refresh it from main:

  git checkout feature/task-08
  git merge main
  # or: git rebase main  (often needs force-with-lease afterward)

Commit message habits I try to follow

Short subject line, imperative mood, one idea per commit. If it is non-obvious,
add a body explaining why. Do not mix unrelated refactors with a bugfix in the
same commit.

When local and origin/feature disagree

  git log --oneline --left-right --graph HEAD...origin/feature

Then consciously choose merge, rebase, or force-with-lease — do not guess.
